                                SECTION 1: ENGLISH LANGUAGE
Part I: Comprehension
Read the following passage and answer Questions 1-5 by choosing the answer to each question. Answers
should be based on what is stated or implied in the passage.
 (The passage given below is an excerpt from Nudge – Improving Decisions about Health, Wealth and
Happiness by Richard H. Thaler and Cass R. Sunstein)
How much should you worry about hurricanes, nuclear power, terrorism, mad cow disease, alligator
attacks, or avian flu? How much care should you take in avoiding risks associated with each? What exactly
should you do to prevent the kind of dangers that you face in ordinary life?
In answering questions of this kind, most people use what is called the “availability heuristic”. They assess
the likelihood of risks by asking how readily examples come to mind. If people can easily think of relevant
examples, they are far more likely to be frightened and concerned than if they cannot. A risk that is
familiar, like that associated with terrorism in the aftermath of 9/11, will be seen as more serious than a risk
that is less familiar. Homicides are more available than suicides, and so people tend to believe, wrongly,
that more people die from homicide.
Accessibility and salience are closely related to availability, and they are important as well. If you have
personally experienced a serious earthquake, you’re more likely to believe that an earthquake is likely than
if you read about it in a weekly magazine. Thus, vivid and easily imagined causes of death (for example,
tornadoes) often receive inflated estimates of probability, and less-vivid causes (for example, asthma
attacks) receive low estimates, even if they occur with a far greater frequency. So, too, recent events have a
greater impact on our behavior and on our fears, than earlier ones.
The availability heuristic helps to explain much risk-related behavior, including both public and private
decisions to take precautions. Whether people buy insurance for natural disasters is greatly affected by
recent experiences. In the aftermath of an earthquake, purchases of new earthquake insurance policies rise
sharply – but purchases decline steadily from that point, as vivid memories recede.
When “availability bias” is at work, both public and private decisions may be improved if judgments can be
made in the direction of true probabilities. A good way to increase people’s fear of a bad outcome is to
remind them of a related incident in which things went wrong; a good way to increase people’s
confidence is to remind them of a similar situation in which everything worked out for the best. The
pervasive problems are that easily remembered events may inflate people’s probability judgments, and that
if no such events come to mind, their judgments of likelihoods might be distorted downward.
                                                   Page 3 of 29
BCSE 2011                               PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION                              SERIES A
   1. What role does the bolded and italicized sentence play in the passage?
       A. It is the conclusion
       B. It states an assumption
       C. It contradicts the topic under discussion
       D. It states the impossible
   2. Which of the following best describes the word “heuristic”?
          A.   Theoretical knowledge
          B.   Rule of thumb
          C.   Dynamics
          D.   Common sense
   3. The whole passage is about the phenomenon of:
          A.   Making good judgments based on past and recent experiences
          B.   Keeping risk-related behavior a total mystery
          C.   Selecting which public and private decisions to make
          D.   Discerning risks based on experiences that easily come to mind
   4. What would influence people to buy insurance?
          A.   Events that occur occasionally
          B.   An event that occurred 5 years ago
          C.   An event that occurred recently and can be remembered vividly
          D.   A disease that has high probability
   5. Which two words best explain the words “pervasive” and “vivid” as used in the passage?
          A.   Pervasive means “invasive” and vivid means “lucid”
          B.   Pervasive means “evade” and vivid means “striking”
          C.   Pervasive means “comprehensive” and vivid means “scarlet”
          D.   Pervasive means “restrictive” and vivid means “colorless”
                                                 Page 4 of 29
BCSE 2011                              PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION                                   SERIES A
PART II: Grammar
   6. Choose the word or phrase that will correctly complete the conversation.
   “What _________ has the new administration’s policies had on investor confidence”?
          A.  Outcomes
          B.  Effect
          C.  Affect
          D.  Influences
   7. Choose the correct word or phrase that will correctly complete the sentence.
   The government’s decision __________ discussion of the Health Bill to the 9th Session of the
   Parliament was the best one given the current situation.
          A.  To defer
          B.  In deferring
          C.  For deferring
          D.  To deferring
   8. Choose the correct word or phrase that will correctly complete the sentence.
   Her ability to be objective on all matters irrespective of circumstances earned her the __________ of
   even her __________ adversaries.
          A.  Admiration; anxious
          B.  Respect; anxious
          C.  Respect; exacting
          D.  Respect; eager
   9. Choose the word or phrase that will correctly complete the conversation.
   “The political party ________ from a group of interested citizens who met frequently to protest
   government actions”
          A.  Consisted
          B.  Emerge
          C.  Develop
          D.  Evolved
   10. The _____ smell of Italian food makes me crave it whenever I smell it!
          A.  Vehement
          B.  Bizarre
          C.  Savory
          D.  Complacent
                                                Page 5 of 29
BCSE 2011                                PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION                                SERIES A
Part III: Vocabulary
   11. Which of the following sentences makes a correct distinction between the words “adverse” and
           A. Adverse means “opponent” and averse means “indifferent”
           B. Adverse means “unwilling” and averse means “oblige”
           C. Adverse means “agreeable” and averse means “allergic”
           D. Adverse means “difficult” and averse means “disinclined”
   12. What is an equestrian?
          A.  Of or related to the sport of fencing
          B.  Of or related to water; living in or near water
          C.  Of or relating to horseback riding or horseback riders
          D.  The study of marine environments
   13. Under the despotic regime of the Blue government, citizens of Arawen repeatedly reported that the
       continuous mining for coal was causing dramatic physical harm, primarily the poisoning of water
       Which of the following words is most suitable to replace the underlined word?
          A.  Extensive
          B.  Striking
          C.  Theatrical
          D.  Spectacular
   14. Choose the correct word or phrase that will correctly complete the sentence.
       The geographical terrain in Bhutan __________ road construction costs.
          A.  Augments
          B.  Inflates
          C.  Lifts up
          D.  Promotes
   15. Choose the correct word or phrase that will correctly complete the sentence.
       The professor is __________ speaker; his classes are very informative and inspirational.
          A.  A novice
          B.  An eloquent
          C.  An experienced
          D.  An inarticulate
                                                 Page 6 of 29
BCSE 2011                               PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION                                    SERIES A
Part IV: Synonyms
   16. Choose the word that is closest in meaning to the underlined word in the following sentence.
       It is believed that the sheer mendacity of the High Priest will lead to the fall of the century old
       religious order.
           A.  Insolence
           B.  Risk taking nature or recklessness
           C.  Untruthfulness
           D.  Susceptibility
   17. Choose the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to the underlined word in the following
       Juxtaposing the settee against the display of wallpapers would determine which matched it the best.
           A.  Posting
           B.  Placing side by side
           C.  Contrasting
           D.  Combining
   18. Obscure has the same meaning as:
           A.  Block
           B.  Obstruct
           C.  Constrain
           D.  Vague
   19. Choose the word or phrase that is closest in meaning to the underlined word in the sentence.
       The police have the tendency to make a big deal over a minor altercation.
           A.  Adjustment
           B.  Option
           C.  Row
           D.  Modification
   20. Which of the following words has the same meaning as “sacrilege”?
           A.  Renounce
           B.  Surrender
           C.  Spiritual
           D.  Disrespect
                                                 Page 7 of 29
BCSE 2011                            PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION                    SERIES A
Part V: Antonyms
   21. Which of the following words has the opposite meaning of “Presumptuous”?
          A. Agreeable
          B. Oblivious
          C. Pretentious
          D. Modest
   22. Which of the following words has the opposite meaning of “Waive”?
          A. Diminish
          B. Stray
          C. Claim
          D. Abandon
   23. Which of the following words has the opposite meaning of “Fraudulent”?
          A. Restrained
          B. Honest
          C. Discrete
          D. Unemotional
   24. Which of the following words has the opposite meaning of “original”?
          A. Authentic
          B. Genuine
          C. Standard
          D. Banal
   25. Which of the following words has the opposite meaning of “pragmatic”?
          A. Realistic
          B. Idealistic
          C. Complicated
          D. Ambiguous
                                              Page 8 of 29
BCSE 2011          PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION           SERIES A
