                      SECTION B: ENGLISH LANGUAGE
Part I: Comprehension
Direction: Read the following passage and answer Questions 26-30 by choosing the answer to
             each question. Answers should be based on the information given in the passage.
             The passage given below is from http://www.2iim.com/india_mba_iim_cat_faq/rc-
First AOL and Time Warner announced their intention to combine. Then came Time
Warner/EMI and Tribune/ Times Mirror. Even more significant, however, has been the
speculation that these mergers have caused: If these transactions are consummated, a large
number of additional media mergers are expected. There is even the possibility of a nightmare
scenario-a wave of media mergers so large that within a decade most of our information will be
supplied by perhaps six of these huge conglomerates and a fringe of much smaller firms.
It's time to ask two critical questions. Is this kind of media oligopoly what we, as a society,
want? And if not, can the anti-trust laws effectively prevent the threatened merger wave? The
answer to the first question is clear. We do not want a media oligopoly. The answer to the second
question, however, is far less certain. We should distrust a media oligopoly because it would give
undue control to a small number of individuals. This need not manifest itself in a price rise for
the daily newspaper or AOL's monthly fee. Rather, it could consist of a change in editorial
viewpoints, a shift in the relative prominence of links to certain websites or a decision not to
cover certain topics, because they are not "newsworthy". These problems could exist without any
improper intent on the part of the media barons. Even if they try to be fair and objective, they
will necessarily bring their own worldview to the job. And in time some of these conglomerates
may be controlled by people who are not fair or objective.
At first it might appear that the anti-trust laws can be of little help in grappling with the issues
presented by large media mergers. The anti-merger laws are commonly understood as protecting
price competition and a relatively small number of firms - to greatly oversimplify, let's say at
most half a dozen - are normally thought to be enough to keep a market price - competitive. In
industry after industry, firms merge until there is only a handful left, and the anti-trust enforcers
are normally unable to do anything to prevent this. (In former years mergers were governed by
an "incipiency" standard that prevented mergers and merger waves well before they would have
led to very large or likely anti-competitive problems.) Even if a handful of firms are enough to
insure effective competition in most industries, would six conglomerate media firms be sufficient
for the diversity of viewpoints necessary to democracy? Would we be reassured if they could
somehow guarantee that they would sell their magazines and internet advertisements at
competitive prices?
                                             Page 9 of 36
BCSE 2013                        PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION                                  SERIES B
I am hopeful that the anti-trust laws, if correctly and vigorously interpreted, are adaptable enough
to meet this challenge. This is because anti-trust is not exclusively about price. It is essentially
about choice - about giving consumers a competitive range of options in the marketplace so that
they can make their own, effective selection from the markets’ offerings. Consumers should be
able to make their choices along any dimension important to them - including price, variety and
editorial viewpoint.
Communications media compete in part by offering independent editorial viewpoints and an
independent gatekeeper function. Six media firms cannot effectively respond to the demand for
choice or diversity competition by extending their product lines, because new media products
will inevitably bear, to some degree, the perspective of their corporate parent. For these reasons
competition in terms of editorial viewpoint or gate-keeping can be guaranteed only by insuring
that a media market contains a significantly larger number of firms than is required for price
competition in other, more conventional markets.
It is unclear, however, whether this interpretation of the anti-trust laws will be applied by the
enforcement agencies and the courts. What is needed, therefore, is a much more careful look at
the challenges that will be raised by future media mergers.
This could best be accomplished if Congress created a Temporary Committee to Study Media
Mergers and Media Convergence. This committee could include members of Congress, the heads
of the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Communications Commission, the Justice
Department's anti-trust division, CEOs of media companies, and the representatives of consumer
groups. The committee would identify problems that may be caused by large media mergers and
by media convergence. If the committee concludes that existing anti-trust laws are inadequate, it
should recommend to Congress that new anti-merger legislation be enacted. This may be the
only way to prevent the nightmare scenario of a media oligopoly.
26. A wave of media mergers could
     A.      be a threat to democracy.
     B.      result in limiting editorial viewpoints.
     C.      result in misuse of certain laws.
     D.      both (A) and (B).
27. According to the passage, what could be the most significant outcome of media oligopoly?
     A.      An increase in the cost of newspapers.
     B.      A shift of power to people who might not be balanced and fair in their views about
             the media.
                                              Page 10 of 36
BCSE 2013                          PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION                                 SERIES B
    C.      Certain websites may get more prominence than others.
    D.      There will be no competition among the newspapers.
28. Which of the following statements, according to the author, are true:
      (i)   Half a dozen firms are enough to keep the market price – competitive.
      (ii)  Half a dozen companies are not enough to provide a democratic media.
      (iii) Enforcement agencies may not interpret the anti-trust laws correctly.
      (iv) Half a dozen companies will be inadequate to meet the consumer demand for product
    A.      (i), (ii)
    B.      (i), (ii), (iii)
    C.      (ii), (iii), (iv)
    D.      (i), (ii), (iii), (iv)
29. The current anti-trust laws
    A.      are not at all sufficient to deal with issues relating to large scale media mergers.
    B.      can prevent mergers from happening.
    C.      will be effective if properly interpreted.
    D.      favour a particular company or group of companies.
30. To get a clear picture of the challenges posed by media mergers, the author recommends:
    A.      Creation of strict laws.
    B.      Strengthening the enforcement agencies.
    C.      Creation of a study committee by the Congress.
    D.      None of the above.
Part II: Grammar
Direction:      Select the correct word or phrase to complete the following grammatical and
                idiomatic sentences.
31. Agriculture in Bhutan has __________ industrial progress.
    A.      kept pace with
    B.      kept paces along
                                              Page 11 of 36
BCSE 2013                       PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION                             SERIES B
    C.       kept its pace for
    D.       kept pace together with
32. He is __________ if he does not meet this situation boldly.
    A.       unworthy of his salt
    B.       not worth his salt
    C.       not of worth to his salt
    D.       not worth of the salt
33. I know I have a copy of the book you need, but at the moment, I can't __________ it.
    A.       lay my hands on
    B.       lay my hands to
    C.       lay my fingers on
    D.       lay my fingers to
34. Dema is a great hand __________ organizing meetings.
    A.       in
    B.       at
    C.       for
    D.       to
35. Did you think you __________ somewhere before?
    A.       saw me
    B.       seen me
    C.       had seen me
    D.       have seen me
Part III: Vocabulary
36. Correctly match the words in column A to their meanings in column B and choose the correct
    response pattern.
     Column A                      Column B
     1 decent                      W    fanciful or unreal occurrence
     2    descent                  X    to disagree or to differ in opinion
     3    dissent                  Y    appropriate or in good taste
                                   Z    to decline or the act of moving downward
    A.       1=Z, 2=Y, 3=X
    B.       1=Y, 2=Z, 3=X
                                           Page 12 of 36
BCSE 2013                        PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION                                   SERIES B
    C.       1=Y, 2=W, 3=Z
    D.       1=X, 2=W, 3=Z
37. What is the ‘tube’ or ‘underground’ in Britain synonymous to in America?
    A.       mafia
    B.       maize
    C.       potato
    D.       subway
38. Which of the following sentences best differentiates between the words “illicit” and “elicit”?
    A.       illicit means ‘legitimate’ and elicit means ‘exclusive’.
    B.       illicit means to ‘support legally’ and elicit means ‘reject the law’.
    C.       illicit means ‘illegal’ and elicit means ‘extract a reply or reaction’.
    D.       illicit means ‘direct meaning’ and elicit means ‘not directly but indirectly implied’.
39. Which of the given words can substitute the sentence given below:
    Parts of a country behind the coast or a river bank.
    A.       Swamps
    B.       Archipelago
    C.       Isthmus
    D.       Hinterland
40. Who is a fanatic?
    A.       One filled with excessive and mistaken enthusiasm in cause
    B.       A Martyr who can sacrifice his/her life
    C.       A Pedant who criticizes religious beliefs
    D.       A Patriot.
Part IV: Synonyms
41. The word demeanor has similar meaning to
    A.       bearing
    B.       balance
    C.       behaviour
    D.       background
                                               Page 13 of 36
BCSE 2013                         PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION                                SERIES B
42. Choose the word that is closest in meaning to the underlined word in the sentence.
    I rather like the quaint little house at the end of the street.
    A.       old
    B.       quiet
    C.       haunted
    D.       unusual
43. Choose the word that is closest in meaning to the underlined word in the sentence.
    The Principal had a sympathetic presence, albeit a commanding one.
    A.       further more
    B.       because
    C.       not only
    D.       although
44. The word intermittent has the same meaning as:
    A.       prolonged
    B.       sporadic
    C.       incoherent
    D.       intervening
45. Choose the word that is closest in meaning to the underlined word in the sentence.
    In light of the evidence produced in court, it was the judge’s decision to exonerate her.
    A.       acquit
    B.       convict
    C.       censure
    D.       condemn
Part V: Antonyms
46. Which of the following words has the opposite meaning of “success”?
    A.       diminish
    B.       fiasco
    C.       refutation
    D.       catastrophe
                                               Page 14 of 36
BCSE 2013                     PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION                                SERIES B
47. Which of the following words has the opposite meaning of “increase”?
    A.      shrink
    B.      restrain
    C.      dwindle
    D.      replenish
48. Choose the word that means the opposite of the underlined word in the statement.
    The world media has tended to focus far more upon the occasional discord than on the
    spectacular achievements.
    A.      tranquility
    B.      harmony
    C.      failure
    D.      confusion
49. Choose the word that means the opposite of the underlined word in the sentence.
    He was poor and arrogant.
    A.      conceited
    B.      haughty
    C.      proud
    D.      timid
50. Choose the word that means the opposite of the underlined word in the question.
    What can we do to alleviate the pain?
    A.      elevate
    B.      sharpen
    C.      aggravate
    D.      promote
                                          Page 15 of 36
 BCSE 2013                       PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION                               SERIES B
