                           SECTION 1: ENGLISH LANGUAGE
Part I: Comprehension
Read the following passage and answer Question 1-5 by choosing the answer to each question.
Answers should be based on what is stated or implied in the passage.
(The passage given below is excerpts from Word Power Made Easy by Norman Lewis and Why
We Lie by Robin Lloyd).
It was the famous Greek philosopher and cynic Diogenes who went around the streets of Athens,
lantern in hand, looking for an honest person.
This was over two thousand years ago, but I would presume that Diogenes would have as little
success in his search today. Lying seems to be an integral weakness of mortal character – I doubt
that few human beings would be so brash as to claim that they have never in their lives told at
least a partial untruth. Indeed, one philologist goes so far as to theorize that language must have
been invented for the sole purpose of deception. Perhaps so. It is certainly true that animals seem
somewhat more honest than humans, maybe because they are less gifted mentally. Why do
people lie? To increase their sense of importance, to escape punishment, to gain an end that
would otherwise be denied them, out of long standing habit, or sometimes because they actually
do not know the difference between facts and fancy. These are the common reasons for
We all lie, all the time. It causes problems, to say the least. So why do we do it? "It's tied in with
self-esteem," says University of Massachusetts psychologist Robert Feldman. "We find that as
soon as people feel that their self-esteem is threatened, they immediately begin to lie at higher
Not all lies are harmful. In fact, sometimes lying is the best approach for protecting privacy and
ourselves and others from malice, some researchers say. Some deception, such as boasting and
lies in the name of tact and politeness, can be classified as less than serious. But bald-faced lies
(whether they involve leaving out the truth or putting in something false), are harmful, as they
corrode trust and intimacy—the glue of society.
"We're trying not so much to impress other people but to maintain a view of ourselves that is
consistent with the way they would like us to be," Feldman said. We want to be agreeable, to
make the social situation smoother or easier, and to avoid insulting others through disagreement
or discord. Men lie no more than women, but they tend to lie to make themselves look better,
while women are more likely to lie to make the other person feel better.
People should become more aware of the extent to which we tend to lie and that honesty yields
more genuine relationships and trust. "The default ought to be to be honest and accurate ... We're
better off if honesty is the norm. It's like the old saying: honesty is the best policy."
                                                 Page 1
BCSE 2010                                                       PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION (A)
   1.     The authors are mainly concerned with
           A.  how mortals are determined to avoid telling untruths
           B.  describing the different ways people react to deception
           C.  why animals are less gifted than humans
           D.  describing why telling untruths is a way of life
   2.   If honesty becomes the norm, then
           A.  distrust in relationships will flourish
           B.  true relationships and trust will grow
           C.  discord can be avoided
           D.  creativity is destroyed
   3.     Why do people feel the need to lie?
            A. To boost their self-esteem
            B. To prove they are more gifted mentally
            C. To outsmart the other person
            D. Solely to be the centre of attraction
   4.     Which of the following best describes the word falsification?
            A. Correction
            B. Deception
            C. Modification
            D. Coercion
   5.     Men’s tendency to lie revolves around
            A. creating trust
            B. attracting the opposite sex
            C. allowing others to look better
            D. making themselves look better or superior
Part II: Grammar
   6. Choose the word or phrase that will correctly complete the conversation.
        I asked the children if they were safe and they replied _______.
            A. affirmative
            B. out of harm’s way
            C. affirmatively
            D. in protection
                                                Page 2
BCSE 2010                                                     PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION (A)
   7. Choose the word or phrase that will correctly complete the conversation.
       The legislation _______ the adoption of temporary special measures.
           A.  provision
           B.  provides for
           C.  made provided
           D.  supplied
   8. Choose the word or phrase that will correctly complete the conversation.
       The poverty rates will fall ______ focus on rural development.
           A.  if we
           B.  if we will
           C.  whenever we
           D.  when we will
   9. Although human beings are believed to be endowed with the seed of enlightenment and
       are therefore considered fundamentally good, being nonetheless vulnerable beings quite
       capable of acts of violence and rage when provoked by circumstances.
       For this sentence to be correct, which among the following should replace the underlined
           A.  nonetheless, being vulnerable beings
           B.  they are nonetheless vulnerable beings
           C.  nonetheless since being vulnerable beings
           D.  nonetheless as they are vulnerable beings
   10. Which of the following words looks plural but is not?
           A. Billiards
           B. Darts
           C. Ballistics
           D. Fives
                                             Page 3
BCSE 2010                                                      PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION (A)
Part III: Vocabulary
   11.   Choose the word that will correctly complete the sentence.
         Cultivation is ________ by steep slopes and erosion risks.
           A.  inadequate
           B.  limited
           C.  poor
           D.  deficient
   12. Choose the word that will correctly complete the sentence.
         She was taking a ________ walk in the park when it started to rain.
           A.  solitary
           B.  alone
           C.  detached
           D.  single
   13. Which of the following usages in relation to the word “tortuous” is correct?
           A. Winding roads are tortuous
           B. Stressful times are tortuous
           C. Painful ordeals are tortuous
           D. Recurring bad memories are tortuous
   14. Which of the following sentences makes a correct distinction between the words
       “Aggravate” and “Irritate”?
            A.   Aggravate means “to erase” and irritate means “to heat up”
            B.   Aggravate means “to introspect” and irritate means “to incite”
            C.   Aggravate means “to raise” and irritate means “to create anxiety”
            D.  Aggravate means “to add to” and irritate means “to vex”
   15. The British equivalent of “Veteran” (American) is:
            A.   hero
            B.   ex-serviceman/woman
            C.   the honourable one
            D.   senior citizen
                                            Page 4
BCSE 2010                                                     PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION (A)
Part IV: Synonyms
   16. Choose the word or phrase that is the closest in meaning to the underlined word in the
       The man scowled at the counter.
           A. shouted
           B. beamed
           C. frowned
           D. paid
   17. Choose the word or phrase that is the closest in meaning to the underlined word in the
       A detailed investigation was commissioned.
           A. called off
           B. planned
           C. authorized
           D. instigated
   18. Choose the word or phrase that is the closest in meaning to the underlined word in the
       The agency would circumvent all the procedures.
           A. shorten
           B. discontinue
           C. avoid
           D. adhere to
   19. Which of the following words has the same meaning as “Ubiquitous”?
          A.  inconsistent
          B.  tearful
          C.  omnipresent
          D.  warlike
   20. Which of the following words has the same meaning as “Disparage”?
          A.  belittle
          B.  violate
          C.  trudge
          D.  soothe
                                            Page 5
BCSE 2010                                                  PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION (A)
Part V: Antonyms
   21. Which of the following words has the opposite meaning of “Impinge”?
          A. not intrude
          B. impose
          C. instill
          D. imbibe
   22. Which of the following words has the opposite meaning of “Susceptible”?
          A. culpable
          B. inclined
          C. vulnerable
          D. immune
   23. Which of the following words has the opposite meaning of “Transitory”?
          A. perpetual
          B. passing
          C. transient
          D. ephemeral
   24. Which of the following words has the opposite meaning of “Specious”?
          A. genuine
          B. unauthentic
          C. indispensable
          D. auspicious
   25. Which of the following words has the opposite meaning of “Pacific”?
          A. deep
          B. agile
          C. soothing
          D. aggressive
                                           Page 6
BCSE 2010                                                                 PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION (A)
